Hello, I'm Andrew Maine and welcome to
the OpenAI podcast. There have been a
lot of exciting releases from OpenAI
recently, including GPT 5.1, Sora, and
one of my favorite new applications,
ChatGpt Atlas. Today, we're going to be
talking to the team behind it, Ben
Goodger, and Darren Fischer, and explore
some of the reasons for why OpenAI
decided to make a browser, what the
future of agentic capabilities mean, and
where everything's headed next. that
time is right because it's actually how
people should be starting their journey.
We're moving to a world where you can
just tell the computer what you want.
>> So, I think it's kind of powerful this
idea that the agent has its own
workspace.
>> My view for this has always been that
this is like a long-term investment.
Let's begin with
what is Atlas and why. So, Atlas is a
new kind of browser uh for an era of the
web where people are interacting with
new technology in natural language. And
so, it's a the kind of browser where you
can just tell it what you want, whether
it's to find the next outfit that you're
going to buy or to help you solve a
really hard problem and then it can help
you harness the web to get a bunch of
stuff done. Um, and so central to this
this idea is that if we take chattbpt
and make it the heart of your browser,
not just an add-on, uh, it's something
that can actually help you make sense of
the content that you're seeing on the
web. It's something that can help you
take action on the web. It's something
that can, you know, learn from your
browsing to personalize your experience
and help you with tasks that aren't just
done in a few minutes, but might take
days or weeks or months or just
generally help you uh become a more
curious, more effective person.
>> Yeah. And it can help you come back to a
task that maybe you've not had a chance
to work on in a while because it will
remember what you were doing for you and
help help you uh get right back into
where you were. Why now?
>> I think the the progression of
technology, you know, with with these AI
models has been really stunning to watch
over the past couple of years. And it
feels like we're at this sort of sweet
spot where the capabilities of of um not
just the LLMs that have powered chatbt,
but also sort of this new area of uh
computer use and some of the other
surrounding technology. is at a point
where we can build some really
compelling experiences for people. So,
we wanted to give it a shot.
>> You know, like Ben said, the models have
gotten so much better and they continue
to get better and you see the slope of
innovation there and the pace of of
improvement. If you look back at the
beginning of the year when operator
first came out, for example, and it sort
of like hints at some of the potential
and now you fast forward to where Atlas
is with agent agent and how much faster
it is, how much more capable it is. just
look at that slope and you start to
project what about ne what's it going to
look like next year five years out etc
and to get the sort of get that
foundation in place that's what we were
excited about and it felt like the right
time uh for me personally you know I I
felt like you know I had made that
transition to seeing how chatbt makes so
much sense in my life to and how much I
was using it and feeling like putting
chat at the core of a browser not just
another tab that you have to go to to
but to have be at the core and part of
that flow that time is right because
it's actually how people should be
starting their journey. And so we want
to make that uh just so natural and easy
and and and uh so I'm really excited to
that that we've been able to bring Atlas
up and I'm excited to bring it to more
platforms.
>> You two have quite a bit of history
working in browsers uh Netscape. uh
you've worked on Firefox and Chrome and
I'd like to kind of understand where you
think we are right now with browsers.
We've got like over a 30-year history of
these and now it seems like they seem
like they've been changing a little bit
incrementally and then all of a sudden
now we're adding AI to it, etc. And how
do you look at the browser landscape?
Well, I think we have um entered this
really exciting time on the web where
we've added um this this very uh human
form of interaction uh in the form of
these large language models that you can
just speak to the software and have it
do the right thing for you. Uh and so I
think that's really going to transform
the way people get stuff done online.
We've gone from a world where you've had
to remember website addresses, you've
had to go and search for them, and now
you're just going to be able to ask for
the task that you want to get done and
you're going to see it get done.
>> I've noticed that a lot of people were
thinking like, well, we still have
browsers. That was a question. Are we
going to have browsers? And it seems
like browsers are going to be here to
stay for a while. Is that something you
both feel?
>> It's a tool that people reach for a lot.
You get a lot of things done on the web
and using a browser. It's uh it's hard
to imagine that not being a a big part
of uh how how people use uh their
computers. Um I think that uh you know
I've been we've been through many phases
of the internet and many phasers phases
of browser development. There was a time
when you know here comes mobile. Why why
would anybody use their their laptop
anymore? Why would anybody use a desktop
computer? And yet people continue to use
desktop computers. They reach for it for
very different things maybe and now that
they can also reach for their phone for
certain things but the the web browser
continues to be like such an important
tool on your computer for how you get
work done how you do research tasks how
you you know look for information and do
um that kind of work you know
substantive work happens within the
browser happens on the web don't really
see that changing if anything I see that
growing um because it's a it's just like
conduit to all the world's information
it's such an easy platform for people to
bring experiences and make it available
to everybody. The browser just makes
that so easy.
>> There's something sort of um interesting
about it where like every
you know of all of the sort of
technological advancements that we've
had over the past, you know, 25 30
years, you know, with the web um there's
something very durable durable about the
browser where like even if you look at
this most recent wave of generative AI,
you know, with with chat GBT launching,
it launched on the web. is uh you know I
think very powerful reflection of the
capabilities of this platform
>> and the platform's itself is amazing. I
don't really need to recount all of the
ways it's amazing but the fact that it's
this very inherently open platform you
know content is published to an an open
you know platform an open internet where
anybody can stand up a browser to
consume that content. There are real no
gatekeepers when it comes to the web
which is a really remarkable aspect to
it. So people can freely publish
information and people can freely go and
find that information. And so it's it's
allows it to just blossom and grow and
evolve in different ways and then it's
very natural that you might want to take
something like an LLM and point it at it
because now it can on your behalf try to
understand it and help you navigate it.
So the idea that uh it can do all that
means it just makes it so much easier
when you're trying to take advantage of
all that information is out there as a
user. Here it is. it can go and find it
for you or understand it for you or
explain it to you or I just want to say
I think it's been really interesting to
see the evolution of the web. You know,
we got started in an era where you know
was the coming off of the dot boom,
right? The the the needs of the browser
back then were different. The kinds of
things people were doing on the internet
were different. They weren't totally
exploring. And then over the course of
time as we've worked on browsers, the
kinds of things people tried to do in
the browser was just so much more. If
you go back to like um early 2000s, you
had the evolution of like these more
advanced web applications like you, you
know, I remember marveling at Google
Maps when it first launched.
>> The fact that you could just scroll and
pan through a map so effortlessly and
then it goes on from there. you know,
uh, all the different kinds of web apps
that people take for granted, things
like YouTube or, you know, I'm going to
list a lot of Google apps cuz I worked
at Google, but, you know, Gmail, Google
Docs, all these things, the kinds of
things that, uh, I mean, I can do all
that in my browser. It's kind of
amazing.
>> This becomes sort of like this this
operating system for your life on your
laptop kind of deal.
>> Yeah. And it pushes the uh, what the
browser needs to be able to do, right?
And so this era that we uh you know
developed Chrome in was an era where
people were already pushing the
boundaries of what
>> [clears throat]
>> uh you could do inside of a browser. But
they had good reason to do it because
the web being this platform where it's
so easy to put new experiences onto the
internet meant there was a lot of
motivation to do that and you want to
you know developers are being very
creative in how they could push the
bounds of the what the browser could do.
But fast forward to today and it's it's
like you have all that that's this
foundation and now uh just think about
like how you know it's got the world's
gotten more complicated you know I think
there's a lot of opportunity for um it
to feel overwhelming the amount of
complexity for people.
>> Well actually I I think you know even
going back a few years like I remember
when I was a kid uh and my my school
friends and I would trade uh sharewware
with each other on floppy discs as
[clears throat] you did back at that
point. Um, and my mind is just not meant
to retain certain types of information.
And so all the things like the command
line for how to to run like your unzip
tool or, you know, however that worked,
this just was just something that felt
entirely bizarre to me. And so in that
sense, the web was kind of a really
refreshing take on that. It was
something where I could just go and
click on things and and explore without
having to sort of understand the
underlying nature of the machine.
>> That's that's true. Um but uh what I um
what I find with uh you know where the
future of technology is going um is that
uh you know when we have these AI
assistants that are attached to your
computer I think we'll find that we make
that computing capability much more
accessible to more people who aren't
necessarily experts. You know even in
you know maybe not just even in terms of
like how an operating system works or
how a browser works but even how
individual websites work. you can
express yourself more naturally as to
like how your int what your intent is,
what your goal is and then the system
can kind of figure out, you know, how
best to accomplish that uh for you.
Yeah, it seems like there was a lot of
ideas about what the web could be and
and part of it is that a lot of
standards were things that were sort of
decided after the fact or we had to sort
of go here and do that. And then there
was things that would have been nice to
have like the semantic web if we made
sure that everything was sort of
annotated, you did that. But just in the
real world, in the corporate world, it's
often hard to do that. And now, did you
think you'd see a world where, hey, we
could have LLM sort of understand this
and make that possible?
>> Well, I think it's amazing to see this
is like kind of the magic of of these
modern AI models is that they are really
um able to interact with things the way
we interact with them. of systems. And
that's that's that's of course the world
is designed for people with eyeballs and
and mouth and on the on online for
people with uh mice to click on things
or,
>> you know, fingers to tap on things. And
so you talk about the semantic web, of
course, it would be really nice if
people would publish websites that were
more,
>> you know, inherently understandable by
machines, but their motivation is to go
where the users are. And as much as we
we make a push for websites that are
more accessible and and you know to
screen readers and whatnot, the reality
of course is that that's just not where
um developers uh spend their energy
first and foremost, right? And it's
usually an afterthought to make sure
that you make everything extremely
accessible. So kind of the beauty of
these AI models is that they kind of
meet the technology where it where where
users are. You know, technology is
designed for uh people to consume. So,
you take a look at the way that it
interacts with language and understands
language. It can interact with language
the way we interact with language. Um,
self-driving cars, they can interact
with the roads and the and the systems
of transit the way that we interact with
them. Um, and I think that's kind of the
beauty of these AI models is that they
can they can be developed to uh for this
world that was designed for humans. And
so, that extends naturally to the
browser. I think it's um it's not
necessarily that we predicted exactly
100% how all of this would play out, but
there's some very powerful ideas in that
original internet.
>> Um where uh like there was this idea
that it was, you know, structured data
uh that would be read and interpreted by
a machine and then presented to the user
in some way. And so with the original
web, there was this idea of a user's
agent, a user agent, and that's a
browser. Uh, and then that, you know,
takes that that machine readable content
and then applies some presentation
preferences to it. Maybe you like your
font to be a little bit bigger so it's
easier to read. Maybe you like it a
certain style or weight or other stuff
like that. And it doesn't. That was back
in the original web was that idea. Uh,
and so I think that that carries forward
in today's era actually very very well.
And you could view where we are today as
just sort of the natural um endpoint or
a continuation of that that journey
>> evolution of the user agent. Right? So
>> back in the day you even in Netscape
browser you could write a what was
called a custom stylesheet or a user
agent stylesheet. You could override the
colors of any website and people who
maybe were uh who were more
sophisticated would know how to do that.
Later on browser extensions kind of made
that a more universally available kind
of thing. People could write an
extension share with other people more
easily. But it just makes a lot of sense
now to like empower an LLM to be able to
go and on your behalf as as Ben said to
to really supercharge that user agent to
be able to do more things on your
behalf.
>> Yeah, there's there were a lot of
interesting ideas I think going back at
kind of at the dawn of all this and you
look even the names of some of the tools
like Gopher and Cheryl Watson and
Sherlock and whatnot and how it was kind
of more proactive. the idea that as you
mentioned these are sort of tools that
don't just aren't document viewers and I
think that we kind of take the browser
for kind of granted and the idea that it
just sort of like it just shows me the
website and I can see where it's helpful
for you two probably having spent most
of your careers working in the space of
browsers and trying to understand that
and it seems like there's like an
inornate amount of complexity there
that's invisible. Could you give me an
example of like you know the kinds of
things you have to deal with when you're
trying to figure out how to make
something work? Oh man, browsers are
maybe surprisingly complex. I don't even
know where to begin. I'm I'm amazed at
how much um work there is and how much
technology goes into building a browser.
>> It's basically like an app platform or a
mini operating system that's running on
your desktop. So everything every
discipline of computing it feels like
there's like you can nerd out on some
aspect of the browser. I was just having
a conversation over lunch with one of
the engineers on our team explaining how
um our owl uh owl owl works which is our
embedding of chromium that runs out of
process. I was explaining the rendering
model for this and it kind of led to a
conversation about how Chrome first
worked when we first built it and then
how uh the advent of uh GPU accelerator
rendering evolved and now fast forward
to the way it all works today and what
we're trying to do with owl and um and
just sort of the depth of complexities
there and and I could go on and on
actually.
>> Well, it is interesting. I think that
people kind of overlook like kind of the
browser wars led to technologies like uh
running node on servers to actually do
stuff which is I think nobody even
thought would happen but because just
trying to make these things much more
efficient and faster
>> and I I again I I kind of you know
marvel that anything works at all and
looking at some of the technical stuff
you have released on chat GBT atlas and
understanding it's not just a plugin.
It's not just a thing that adds a
chatbar. Could you explain a little bit
more about the architecture? So from a
design perspective, I would say that we
wanted to imagine the entire experience
with chatbt at the heart of this thing.
Uh not just I mean you know we have a a
chat GBT extension as well that you can
install in Chrome for example, but
there's some limits to what that can do.
And so when we approached this from a
design perspective, we wanted to just be
really empowered to look across the
entire browsing surface. And I think you
know maybe like you know 2 to 5% of what
we want to do is there today. Um but we
think that this being able to to own the
whole browser experience in this way
gives us the opportunity to to weave
that chat GPD magic uh in throughout.
And that includes things for example
like on any um uh uh text field uh you
can sort of invoke chat GPT and have it
help you write. Uh and then as it is
helping you write that is you know your
personalized chat GPT. you know, it can
sign uh your email as you because it
knows you from your other use of chat
GBT. Uh and so being able to to build it
in a way that enables these very like
richly integrated use cases uh felt you
it felt very important to have a browser
as opposed to um you know just an add-on
for for an existing app. And it gets to
some of like the foundational stuff.
When chat TPT is at the core of this
thing and you you enable things like um
the memories feature, it means that you
can ask this thing, hey, what was that
thing I was looking at again? And it's
going to know and it's going to help you
like I who hasn't had this this sort of
experience of, oh yeah, I remember I saw
some video or I saw some thing. What was
that again? How do I get back to it? I
want to share it with somebody else.
Traditionally, you might go through your
browser history or your YouTube history
and scroll through there trying to find
it. Or you're like, "What was that tweet
again that I saw or I was looking at a
recipe with my son on the weekend? It
was what was the third buffalo wings
recipe that we found that I wanted to
make.
>> How do I find it again?" And just to be
able to easily recall it because this
thing is able to do that so
effortlessly. It's a side effect of it
just being there. probably the most in
probably the um probably what I would
say is the biggest advantage for doing
this and especially in the way that
we've done it is um how we thought about
integrating this agent
>> capability. Uh and this is really where
having our own concept of browser
including what it means to have a
collection of tabs. If you think of your
regular browser window that's a
collection of tabs then you can also
imagine that your agent has a collection
of tabs. Maybe each instance of the
agent that you've chosen that you've
asked to go off and do something for
you. You might have like five of them
each running on on different problems
and each one of those has its own
collection of tabs and of course they're
not showing up on your top tabs because
you didn't open them. Uh but it
nonetheless has them and it's working
through them and it's getting
information from them and it's
processing it and taking action on your
behalf and clicking on things and all
that sort of stuff. That is the sort of
um functionality that you can have when
you go and you design a system like this
sort of end to end. You invent all these
abstractions and you had this in the
very very first version. I remember when
I joined Ben to work on this and he had
uh already had sort of this idea the
this idea that we would be able to
segment tabs between the tabs that are
the users tabs and that tabs that are
that the agent is working on uh for your
behalf. And that kind of shows up in the
product today. When you uh start an
agent task, you go, it goes off and it's
going to work on whatever you asked it
to work on. And it might need to open
some additional tabs. And instead of
those tabs just appearing in your tab
strip and and perhaps uh feeling a
little uh discombobulating because like
where are all these what are all these
tabs?
>> Um it it has just sort of accumulated
some work in the background. And when
it's done, then it presents it to you in
a tabular form. you can go and click
through and see what it actually did or
you're just happy with the outcome and
you really didn't need to see all the
intermediate steps. And so I think it's
kind of powerful this idea that the
agent has its own workspace. I would say
for many people using this on the
surface it seems pretty easy to
understand. I've got a browser, I've got
chat GPT, but we also have agent mode.
What is an agent task? What is not? What
would be a chat GBT task? Could you
explain that? Yeah. So, um, uh, agent
mode is basically you're inviting chat
GBT to take action on the web on your
behalf. Uh, and so maybe you are, um,
looking at a website, uh, and you would
like to do something on that site, but
you're not quite sure how to do it. What
you can do is you can just ask Chat GPT
directly. Uh, if you're, let's say
you're on a spreadsheet and you want to
synthesize a pie chart, and you don't
know how to do that, you can just say,
"Hey, make a pie chart with this data."
Uh, and it will go off and it will
figure out how to use that software.
Now, if you could think about sometimes
some of the software that you use, it
can be pretty complicated. So, just
being able to ask in natural language,
in your own words, what you want to see,
and then you could just sort of sit sit
back and watch it take over and it
starts moving the mouse around and doing
stuff like that for you. It's pretty
pretty amazing.
>> And and and you could see how it's going
to do it. So, actually, you can learn
how to now make that pie chart because
it's going to show you, which is pretty
cool.
>> I found it pretty useful. Like I like I
like to study memory methods and stuff
and I have to do a thing where I have to
have like a system for decks of cards
and stuff and I didn't want to have to
paste in a bunch of like card emojis and
I'm like can you just go do this for me
and it's like it's magic. It's like
witchcraft. One of the fun fun things
I've seen people do around the office is
they'll have written a doc and then
they'll ask it to take a review pass on
their doc and like add some comments.
And so it'll actually go into your doc
and it can use sort of the integrated
commenting tool of whatever document
editing system you're using and it will
just add comments as if it was a
collaborator.
>> Yeah, it's really amazing. I mean just
we of course being software engineers we
experienced the model um critiquing our
code
>> and over the past year just amazing to
see how much better it's gotten at that.
like in the beginning and it was not
always the case that it would find
things that were useful. Uh but it's
these days I'm like this thing is
sharing important like amazing nuggets
that are saving me from uh you know
shipping bugs and I can just you know I
can see the analogy to like reviewing
any document that I might have and just
asking it to to go and give me some some
style feedback or you know maybe some
grammar suggestions or like you know
tone suggestions and I just it's very
exciting to think about how any tool
you're using on the internet you could
ask this invoke this agent and ask it to
interact with at in the same way that I
would or somebody else would and just
see what it would do and maybe you learn
from it or or or or whatnot.
>> One of the things that's come up a lot
during my conversations with the the
teams inside OpenAI is how much they're
using
the tools you know they're using GPT5
GP5 codecs to do that
>> and [gasps and sighs] how has that
affected you and do you think that's
going to create an accelerated product
cycle? So, so absolutely couple couple
of uh anecdotes on this one. Um, you
know, one of the top C codeex users at
the company is on our team and they're
just sort of like raw productivity in
terms of like PR output is like off the
charts, you know, as a result of using
this tool and I'm, you know, it's really
exciting to see what
>> good PR output.
>> Yes. So, it's really exciting to see
what experienced engineers can do with
these tools because they can it can both
sort of explore an area, help you
explore an area, decide if something is
worth doing, uh, and then you apply your
judgment. You kind of tell it what you
want it to do and it goes off and does
it. And then for folks like me who maybe
spend less time coding than I used to, I
can also have it go off and and and
prove some stuff out. So, like everyone
on our team is able to contribute. you
know, our product managers are producing
PRs, our designers are producing PRs um
because of these tools. And so I'm like
a true believer.
>> Yeah, I did a for GA, I did this um
week-long refactoring to try to unlock a
certain uh feature that we were trying
to ship. And then I had one more to do
and this time I asked Codex to do it and
it was done within the whole project was
done within an hour and it was of
similar scale and I was able to tell it,
hey, just do this other one kind of like
I did that one. So I had shown it the
way and I just asked it to do this other
task that was very similar and it was it
was almost one shot.
>> One of the the promises of really
capable code tools that are able to
write multiple languages porting code
from one language to another
>> we saw with Sora and how you know they
said hey Android
>> yeah and people were like oh great when
will that oh no it shipped.
>> No no I mean actually chatbt has been
amazing at doing um cross language
translation for quite a while. coding
languages.
>> So, um, uh, you know, we're building
bringing this product to Windows now and
we're actually going to be using Swift,
which because we are a bunch of, uh, the
team is full of Swift experts and we we
we are excited to have a shared common
codebase and and, uh,
>> you use Swift in the Windows.
>> Yeah, Swift and Windows. And so, uh, I'm
not, you know, I think it's very, in my
past experience, I've I've been I was
marveling even years ago at just how
good chatbt was at being able to
essentially generate code for me in
Swift that was uh that did not exist on
the internet.
>> So, it was taking code that maybe was
written fornet
>> and uh could could translate it to Swift
for me. And I was just I was marveling
at its capability or or to generate a
bunch of obscure winrt code that's norm
normally a very tedious C code with uh
lots of gooids and all kinds of things
that are very detailed. Uh but it was
all just spitting out this code and
saving us just an enormous amount of
time.
>> Yeah, I had Codeex CLI spin up a Swift
app without ever having to go into Xcode
to paste anything in and it was worked
just right out of the box. It really
impressed me. So it's it I mean it it's
it's like kind of like one of the
strengths of these models. So the fact
that you know if you can ask the right
question, get the right prompt and
[clears throat] it can and if it's on
the right path and like how to build
something, uh it can do it in any
language. That's really not a problem.
>> So I've been using this and I've been
switching it to agent mode to do stuff
and I know sometimes I can just leave a
tab and go off and do something else and
sometimes it's like hey if you leave
this tab I'm going to pause. What's
going on there?
>> Yeah. So, this is um sometimes you'll
have asked the agent to do something
that's very sensitive. You know, an
example is it's looking at your email.
Uh and we would like you to keep your
eyes on the road, so to speak. You know,
I have a car that has um sort of an auto
drive feature, and it wants me to pay
attention to the road, and it's it's
helping me drive, but it's not going to
let me like check my phone or, you know,
take a nap or something like that. And
so, it has a whole camera that's
watching my eyes, uh it's making sure
that I'm paying attention. So you can
kind of view this sensitive mode in in
agent mode as kind of like that. It
wants me to pay attention to this tab
while it completes just so that I feel
like I have a good level of control over
it. And in fact, if you look at the
bottom of the tab, you'll see that
there's a little bar that has a big red
stop button in it. And if you've ever
been in a machine shop, you'll know that
the machines there have these big red
buttons on them. If suddenly it starts
to do something that you don't want it
to do, you just whack that button and it
stops. And so that's the idea. Just um
just just keep an eye on it. uh watch it
go uh and you can always take over uh if
you want to do it yourself.
>> Yeah, we put a lot of thought into
making sure that these features um help
you feel in control of the experience
and take away some of that maybe
uncertainty when you want to go use
them. For example, on top of what Ben
mentioned, there's also the signed out
um u method of using agent. So, if you
want to start without it being in an
authenticated session, meaning it
doesn't have the cookies required to
even access your email, you could do
that. And I think that can be a great
way to kind of try some things and do do
it where you're learning like how does
this thing actually work and you might
uh then uh hit a point where in order to
take the next step with agent well
actually it would be helpful if it were
authenticated and so then you might try
uh doing a task where it does benefit
from having your cookies.
>> You might not remember probably the
first time you actually run agent it um
shows the screen it explains how all
this stuff works for you. So you can
like if you read through that you'll see
sort of the choices that you have and
you'll learn about how to to use them.
>> Yeah, I uh have about a half million
unread email. I'm ready to go full auto.
It can't do a worse job than I have so
far.
>> You might find it just hits select all
archive.
>> Yeah, but wouldn't be the worst, you
know,
>> declare bankruptcy.
>> Yeah, I could have something to blame.
Uh, but it has been it's been super
helpful for me because there have been
times when I'm trying to surface an
email and the keywords just don't work
or the results are too many and just
being able to go in and say find this
thing about that. It's [clears throat]
saved me numerous times.
>> And so one of the other things that we
did uh with agent as well because there
are times when you'll want to keep an
eye on it is that we uh and I'm pretty
proud of what the team was able to come
up with here is to make it like very
visually compelling. Um, [clears throat]
and so there's, you know, all of the
little little sparkles and and pixie
dust and so on that appear around it as
it as it's working. Uh, it's pretty
cool. Uh, so yeah, love to to see more
people try it out.
>> Yeah, it's fun to watch that. And and
also with ChatGpt2 in agent mode, I've
I've said that I could probably watch a
live stream of just watching these
systems solve problems because it's it's
like how it's made, but watching
computers do it.
>> Uh, it's exciting to see where this
headed. I also sort of wonder what's it
going to be like when you know there's
going to be a lot of different AI
powered browsers out there and also if
we have to think about like what is what
is the ecosystem like when most of my
tabs are open by my agent and not me and
somebody's trying to capture my
attention. The way agent works right now
is that it's only it's only like running
in response to your request.
>> Um and so if the agent is doing
something it's because you at some level
you asked for it. um
pages that it opens actually have some
limitations. Um so like you might be
used to browsing around the web and
you'll see some page you know will show
a pop-up window saying give me like
notifications permissions so that I can
sort of spam you with updates.
>> Never ever clicked on that anybody
nobody's ever intentionally clicked on.
>> Yeah. Um the agent tabs can't do that.
Uh they're actually blocked uh from do
so there's a bunch of stuff like the
design of the system uh to avoid you
accidentally ending up in that that
state. Now, of course, you're free, you
know, when you browse to a website and
you're asked for a notification
permission, if you want to receive
updates from that site, maybe your
calendar,
>> right? You're free as a user to go and
like say, "Yes, I want this." But the
agent won't ever do that on your behalf.
>> It's an interesting world where we think
about
>> part of the beauty of the early web was
a serendipity. Oh, I found this other
thing. I found these other links.
>> But I think then that kind of got sort
of weaponized against the user where
basically you try to do a thing and it's
hard to do a thing. And I think we got
to
>> Yeah. Actually, it's really interesting.
I don't know if this is where you're
going with that, but like a lot of
websites want to just keep you on their
website. Maybe they'll run ads which
would take you off, but otherwise they
kind of keep you in that lane. One of
the amazing things about thei side chat
or the model being present there and and
the agent even is just that you can ask
it questions about that site where the
answer might be something on a different
site.
>> And so it makes the web bigger for you.
helps you not just be stuck down that
that rabbit hole that you are on, but to
help bridge you to something more useful
to you maybe or more helpful. Yeah, I
know you have some good stories on this.
>> There's something just um wonderful
about the I I call it beautiful chaos of
the web where you kind of don't want to
always be stuck in the same place. You
want to be able to embrace the diversity
of the web and all the content that's on
it. So, yeah, I love that. I love that
you can do it as well without having to
leave the site. Yeah, you know, you can
do it right there on the side and then
you can choose to to go somewhere else,
but it it sort of um there's this aspect
of um I know with Wikipedia, you can go
on these like multi-hour journeys
through content. Um that's really only
that's like a feature of Wikipedia,
whereas I feel like the ask chat GPT
sidebar gives you that ability for like
the web at scale. And so it gives you
the ability to ask questions about
random sites and go off in different
directions and that sort of thing. I
mean, this is extremely useful if you're
looking for certain kinds of products
and you find yourself onto one product
page for one company or one, you know,
vendor, but now you can be like, well,
what else is out there? And the model
can say, well, here there here's some
other sites to go check out that is
related to this and off you go. Now,
your your world has gotten bigger,
right?
>> I've had some wonderful discoveries with
both videos and books that I couldn't
find through the YouTube search engine
or the Amazon search engine. I found
places where because chat GPD understood
a bit more about what I was looking for,
what I was really trying to find and
that was like it gave me more utility
out of those sites. That's actually
another um like so for chat GBT as a
whole like the personalization features
the fact that it sort of learns more
about you the more you use it uh has
been like a super popular feature of
chat GBT with Atlas. you know, this
extends to to this your browsing
activity, uh, like your your sort of web
history. Um,
>> and this and and so this allows the
browser to create these these browser
memories. Um, which Darren pointed out
before is kind of something you can use
to help you get back to a site if you
kind of can't remember it later, but it
also helps in situations like with the
agent. Um, you know, I am a United
Mileage Plus member and so I tend to
like to look for flights on that site.
Um it would be very tedious if every
time I asked the agent to go and do
something like that if I had to tell it
and always use United Airlines. Uh but
it kind of knows from my browsing my
browser memories that I'm a frequent
user of United and so it will just go
there.
>> Helps you in the forward queries, right?
And because it's it's like now now this
uh search experience has so much more
context
>> about what matters to you. So it just it
ends up being a lot more efficient.
right?
>> Saves you a bunch of time because you
don't have to tell it as much again and
again.
>> So, I feel like that's something that
helps me a lot. I think some people
probably have, you know, different
preferences around the these things as
well. So, there are controls where
people can go and see and control what
um what memories are are used. You can
turn personalization, you can turn it
off entirely.
>> And you also have too when you use it,
and I don't go into these tabs as much.
I'm starting to do that more because I
realize they're there is I can go to
images. I can go to news and I have kind
of like a search engine. And that's the
the thing I'm trying to sort of
understand is it's a browser but is also
openi heading towards its own search
engine.
>> Well, part of that comes from the fact
that um when you're building a browser,
people come to that browser with
existing intents like navigational
intents or the the idea that they do
want to look for images, right? Or they
want to see a certain kind of subset of
information. And so we brought those
those controls into the the landing page
of chatbt.com
so that it would be both familiar to
people but also useful in the way that
they're they're used to, right? We
wanted to make sure people didn't feel
like they're so out of um you know that
that we didn't want people to have to
learn so many new things in order to be
successful using this product. We wanted
them to have a lot a good dose of
familiar tools and familiar sorts of
things and but and anyways these are
just useful for many people search and
browse are just very connected almost
one and the same and
>> uh you know it's it's very important to
to internalize that as we're building
this experience I think it's very
powerful that and I was touching on this
before that as people
search and use the browser in maybe a
very normal way they're also learning
about uh that there's a model there
that's going to respond to them. So you
get the a set of chips across the top
which is like quick links to go to where
you were trying to go perhaps
these these different tabs where you can
click on to see like familiar different
kinds of subsets of information but also
this model response coming in. And so
you start to you using a product in a
normal way. You start to learn that
there's a there's another way or that
there's a superpower that this thing's
providing. And it's some of it is just
the normal chatbt experience that people
are used to but not everybody's using
chatbt to the fullness. And so when you
when it's core and central to the
experience we have an opportunity to
present that to people as part of their
normal journey. And I think that's
really cool similar to side chat um of
course you have to activate it but it's
right there ask GPT and you might be
curious and now you kind of unlock this
superpower but it's right there the
context is there. interesting experience
for me was the the very first day when I
started using it and I look at this I'm
trying to understand okay this is
basically it's it's an app that has a
browser and chat GPT it's not like we
just sort of glued those things together
it's sort of like they're both there and
there's a deep connection to the chat
GPT and I asked it to could you add a
bookmark for you know Amazon
>> and then a moment later the bookmark
appeared and that was a really kind of
special moment to sort of understand
what happens when you're the LLM deeply
understands the system and is able to
make those kinds of changes.
>> We're um
very excited about this. I think from a
uh just like a conceptual transformation
point of view, we're moving to a world
where you can just tell the computer
what you want in like whatever
[clears throat] way you want to tell it.
>> Simplest way possible, just tell it.
>> And so what this means for making
computing more accessible to more people
is just like really profound. And that's
like the company's mission is to make
AGI beneficial to all of humanity. And
we take that really seriously. And I
think being able to transform computing
in ways like this that might seem very
small on on face of it, they add up to
something, you know, far more profound.
Uh and so yeah, that we're we're excited
about that kind of thing.
>> Some of my first experiences with
ChachiT as a user was really this idea
Ben's talking about. you know, I was
comfortable, happy just sitting there
doing my Google searches, but sometimes
I didn't quite know what Google query to
type in
>> and you know, when I when I realized I
could ask sort of a really poorly formed
question to chatbt and it would come
back with make some sense of what I
asked what I said and it would it would
give me something that maybe now I could
query Google for. Uh that's how I first
started using chatbt and then I started
to realize over time that like oh why am
I not just asking it in the first place
you know and and it's sort of I think
for people they all have like a there's
like a bit of a journey with new
technology right you're we're all
creatures of habit we're used to the
things the way we work and and it works
well for us the things we're used to
we're used to it so it's not a problem
and but as you maybe explore something
new you start to see oh there actually
is a better way and for everybody that
journey is a little different and so for
me one of the things I was most excited
about with Alice was this idea that uh
when you're typing into the address bar
that that the default is chat GBT
because for me that's actually makes
sense for most of what I'm going to do.
And this is one of these things where I
feel like now when I don't have access
to that correct I feel like there's like
this little bit of um friction
>> uh like it takes longer now because then
I've got to I've got to go find my chat
GBT tab in another browser and like
figure out how to get at that and do
that. Whereas with Atlas, you can just
like open a new tab and start typing.
>> The old way was a much more manual way.
This way is a much more I don't have to
be as like clever about what I ask. I
can just give some
>> I have a problem.
>> Yeah, I have a problem. I can say it in
a much more simple way.
>> I I know that I'm still having trouble
kind of context switching and
understanding that it's not just a URL
search bar or just an empty keyword
search, whatever. That literally I can
ask it for things and not just have, you
know, you know what is the capital of
Nepal? and not just have that pop into a
Google search box, right?
>> And that's the thing now I'm like, "Oh,
yeah. When I go type in the thing, if I
type in the URL, I get the URL, but I
can also type in kind of my query and do
that, but that's still taking me time to
adjust." Well, just as a um like a
general rule, like I find sometimes
modes can be a reflection of some of the
limitations of the system underneath
that that you know, at the end of the
day, humans don't understand. Um, and so
I think the northstar for us with so
much of this stuff is can we just help
you arrive at the right place, you know,
regardless of you needing to know I
should put it in this mode or I should
put it in that mode. Like that is sort
of the struggle. It comes down to like
how do you want to use this tool? And so
uh we want to make this thing something
that um you know if you just go in as
Darren was saying before you know you
can just kind of tell it what you want
maybe this halfformed thought and it
will will give you something good. It
will help you figure out the problem.
Now, of course, there are ways that, you
know, if you are a a user that
understands some of the underlying
capabilities of the system, we want to
give you the option to invoke those too
to bring them down and help you. Um, and
that that's sort of an efficiency gain
uh that you can get. But the certainly
the system shouldn't require that you
know all of those sort of incantations.
It should be able to just take what you
say to it and give you something good.
Yeah, I think it it reminds me back to
like the early days of browsers um in
the era when people would install like a
toolbar for their search engine
>> and you know and that meant they had yet
another box on their browser, right? And
Firefox had a dedicated search box for
doing your web search. Um but back then
um as much as people were very used to
that and very comfortable with it, you
know, you have one box to type URLs and
one box to type search queries. Um, when
we were working on Chrome, we're like,
why why have two boxes? Why do people
have to stop and think about which box
to type it into? Just give them one box.
>> Um, now if you look at Chrome, that's
what its URL bar looks like, right? Just
one box. And that's become the industry
standard.
>> But even on Chrome's new tab page,
there's actually two boxes.
>> There's one for the address bar at the
top and then there's this box in the
middle that's the maybe comfortable
familiar Google box, right?
What we wanted to do and we kind of
pushed ourselves with is like this whole
topic of like hey you might have a
conversation you want to start with the
model. You might be interested in in
navigation navigational query but really
you might not make up your mind about
what your intent is until you start
typing.
>> Mhm.
>> And just one box is a lot simpler. And
so when you open up Atlas you just have
one box on the new tab page. And that
was something from a design perspective
that we really um tried to achieve and I
think we were able to. And it keeps the
whole system a little bit simpler for
people. It might be a little um unusual
and not what people are used to, but I
think over time they'll they'll get to
like it.
>> What was
some of your favorite features? Some of
the things you're glad you're able to
implement.
>> Oh man, you know, um it's interesting
whenever you get a chance to build a new
browser, you have have having worked on
quite a few uh you get a chance to sort
of uh start over and reset on certain
things. um not everything because I
think one of the core tensions is that
people are used to their browser the way
it is and but you do have a chance to
rethink some things. So one of the
features I worked on was this scrolling
tabs feature
>> and kind of came from an insight of um
that uh you know life tab life could be
a little better if maybe new tabs all
started all were inserted on the left
>> or just on one side. Um, you know, if
you're a user who pins tabs in your
browser, which is a pretty advanced use
case, maybe a lot of people don't know
that you can pin tabs to the tab strip
in Chrome or Safari or other browsers,
but it is a common thing. And if you pin
a tab, it'll be pinned on the left side.
And whenever, suppose that was like a
Gmail tab, when you click links, those
new web pages would open just adjacent
to that pin tab. But if you press the
plus button, uh, the new tabs would
appear off to the right.
>> Mhm. And what ends up happening is
you're working throughout your day.
You're going to Gmail, opening a a URL
from there. You're hitting the plus
button, opening buttons tabs on the
right, and you're sort of accumulating
old tabs in the middle. And so, uh, it
becomes a little bit painful to, uh,
close all the tabs to the right from the
middle, you know, to to to clean up
those tabs because you just end up with
a lot of clutter. So, scrolling tabs was
one of the innovations that we worked on
to try to make tab management better.
And it's like it's not [snorts] an AI
feature,
>> but it's like when you have this
opportunity to rethink browsers, um it's
an opportunity to rethink some of these
primitives and try some different
things.
>> Maybe it's a major productivity tool. So
finding these wins uh can be like really
>> exciting. Yeah. And we think about one
of the things that I came to realize and
appreciate only later is that if you
have a browser that more naturally
scales to having tons and tons of tabs,
it means that certain kinds of things
get unlocked for you. So everybody's or
many people are probably familiar with
the ability to search for a specific tab
that you might have open. There's a
command shift A or a button for that in
many browsers.
>> Uh what with with uh with uh with our
with our system that with scrolling
tabs, the fact that it can accum allow
for a lot of tabs to be accumulated
without them all being in your face. You
can still search across them and find
these old tabs. So in a way it's like
this this history of of things you've
done in your browser is there for you to
search in a very familiar way because
it's your it's command shift A it's
right there and it you can have that
capability without it being cluttered.
>> Darren's talking about tab search over
your tabs. You can just type and it will
find the tab that you want. But I think
the most interesting thing about this
feature is the fact that you don't need
to close tabs. And so you can end up
having, you know, my I think my browser
I've got like well over a thousand tabs
open. And I just wouldn't think to for
that to be possible for you think that
that would be a problem, right? But it's
not.
>> No, because the system manages the
memory for you.
>> Yeah. Now, this is the scrolling tabs
feature that is not on by default. And
part of the reason why it's not on by
default, as much as we think it's
magical, and I'm a huge fan of this
thing we built,
>> it is also a little different than what
people are used to. And we wanted
[clears throat] people to um not have to
learn so many new things all at once
when they're approaching this browser
that is, you know, bringing all these AI
capabilities. But one of the amazing
things when you have allow for thousands
of tabs to be open means not only do you
get to access it again with tab search,
but the model can see them.
>> Mhm.
>> The model can see these tabs. It means
your working set can be very large,
larger than what you might keep in your
head naturally, but you know that there
was something there. So, you're going to
ask the model for it and it can go and
interact with those tabs again. And I
think that's actually pretty amazing. I
would be remiss if we didn't um if I
didn't mention for this question as well
just the basic [clears throat] feature
of Atlas, which is the ask chat TBT
sidebar. This is something I get some
value out of every single day is I use
the browser. Um I I pull that thing
open. and I ask it to summarize a page
if it's too long or I want to figure out
like if I'm reading an article like how
it really um matters to me in particular
or if I have a question about something
that's going on in the world, it can go
off and do some research for me and come
back with stats and facts and figures.
I've used it when I'm online shopping to
make sure I'm looking at what really is
the best deal on something that I'm
looking at. I've used it to help um spin
up agent tasks to go off and automate
some of my productivity workflows. I've
had it build, you know, Google forms for
me to help me like quiz my co-workers on
the best way to design new features for
the browser.
>> I really like that example because if I
remember correctly, you said you also
asked you asked Side Chat to help come
up with the outline of the right
>> of the survey and then you said, "Hey,
can you just put it into a Google form
for me and it did it and that's really
cool."
>> Yeah. So it's just um you know we talked
before about um bringing a power of chat
GBT with you everywhere you go on the
web and I think that sidebar really it's
like having chat GBT sitting on your
shoulder just right there to help you
know give you some advice uh wherever
you might need it
>> and sometimes even just simple things
like um I was in Slack and uh there was
some uh some somebody shared some text
that was in another language so I just
selected it and I right click and asked
sidehat about it and it translated it
for
It was so much easier than having to you
don't have to sit there and copy paste,
right?
>> My my favorite use of that so far with
the in the agent mode and I I won't name
the cloud provider, but it's a very big
company that often you find out you run
a lot of services and you forget what
those services are and at the end of the
month you get a bill and it's a very
confusing bill because you're trying to
figure out I thought I shut this down.
>> Isn't this all of them or
>> Yeah. Well, some of them are a little
bit or maybe been around longer and
trying to parse through. That's like
reading a Soviet tractor manual. And I
went in and I said, "Hey, I got this
bill. I think I shut down. I don't know
what's going on. Can you help me with
it?" And I watched it navigate through
the website, go to the page, find the
different things I was doing, explain to
me what the service was doing. I'm like,
"Can I shut this down?" I'm like, "Yeah,
shut it down." And that was like a $100
a month bill that was just saved through
>> Wow. That's really That's awesome.
Another one I had um as well I was uh
actually I had some some uh medical
tests done recently
>> and uh sometimes it can take a while for
the doctor to come back and explain to
you like what they mean and then in
meantime you have the patient portal
there and you can access the sort of
doctor language stuff there and I can't
read that it's not written in English
normal English and you can have the you
can ask and it will tell you kind of
like what what that means for you and I
found that to be really helpful at
least.
>> So, saving you money, helping you get
some answers. This thing feels very very
I like I'm pretty convinced that this is
the way increasingly the way that people
will interact with information
>> or you're using some um very popular yet
complicated HR tool or something like
this and you're like, where's that thing
again? And and it it of course has
studied the manual for you and can go
and show you the way.
>> It's kind of remarkable. I feel like it
it took me a long time to realize that
once I had, you know, an iPhone that I
always had a camera and a flashlight in
my pocket. And there are many situations
where I'm like, ah, what was the name of
this thing I saw in the store? It's
like, you could have taken a photo, you
know, or man, it's dark. It's like, you
got a flashlight. And I feel with these
tools, there's a lot of capability there
that we even saw that too with search,
you know, some of us were power users of
search and other people are was a
complete mystery. And do you think we'll
see a faster acceleration here that
people are going to start sharing and
understand how to use this?
>> Yeah, I think the stage that we're in
with Atlas right now is um we think this
is a really powerful tool, but we don't
know all the ways in which people will
use it and and it's kind of like the
internet in that sense. Um and so one of
the reasons why we wanted to get this
out, you know, when we did is we just
want to see how people use it and hear
from people, you know, where it works
well, where it sucks and needs to get
improved, you know. Um, but I think over
the course of time we'll get a better
feel for that. I also think we'll need
to help explain in more cases like when
the right time to use it could be. Um,
because I think there's a part of
building something that feels like magic
in sort of making that magic real for
more people in more situations. And we
don't want to have to have rely on
people to always think I should ask this
question at this time.
>> Yeah, it's really easy to just we're
creatures of habits. We use the browser
the way we use the browser. We use our
computers the way we use them. uh we
don't always realize when there's a
better way to do something or a more
efficient thing that we could be doing.
I I feel this way about when you know
the process of learning how to use jatyp
in the first place. It's like it's this
like realization. Oh, I should just ask
the model for that. It'll save me time.
But I it takes a little while and
there's a bit of a tipping point for
people where they start at some point in
their journey they're going to learn
that how to use these tools. And there
might be some people who are early
adopters and they can show the way and
figure things out and share those ideas.
But but also it's it's kind of like I
think a lot of people haven't yet found
uh found their way to how to use these
tools in the best way. I I find myself
still trying to shut down tabs because
I'm still you know I started using
browsers in the era of getting the popup
message you have many too many browser
tabs open. Yes. And now the you know
compute and the capability and the
management internally these things is
way advanced and so I think about like
you know I'm not optimized in many ways.
>> Yeah. So also another like say nonAI
feature of our browser was that we we
kind of took a took a page out of the
playbook of of mobile browsers
recognizing that um you know your
laptop's uh computing resources are not
really limited. you have a battery you
care about.
>> Um, you know, so we put a limit on how
many uh tabs would actually be backed by
a live web page.
>> Mhm.
>> Instead of trying to um maybe the more
traditional approach that desktop
browsers would take, which is to just
try to mitigate the cost of those
background web pages that you haven't
used in forever. uh we will just close
them down
>> and if [clears throat] you go back to
that tab it'll get reopened and we keep
a reasonable limit there and we uh apply
you know somewhat of a cleverish
caching algorithm to try to um be smart
about keeping making sure that the tabs
you care about are kept in memory uh so
so as to sort of lessen the burden on
your computer. Um you might notice also
with Atlas that it restarts super fast.
Uh when you restart Atlas um because of
the way it's structured uh the owl
process is separate from the Atlas
process. AL being our embedding of
Chromium.
>> So the two can start up in parallel.
>> We can restart Atlas uh very quickly
with all your tabs and the data
associated with them.
>> Um but the web pages aren't loaded yet.
>> Mhm.
>> Um and when you click on them, it won't
bring those web pages back. Um but this
way the whole system can stay fast,
lightweight and um as we were able to
build Atlas as a separate uh application
from this from Al. Uh Atlas is
controlling Al. Al is projecting data
into you know the the rendering of web
pages into Atlas but Atlas itself can
stay a relatively thin uh Swift
application.
>> Why Chromium?
>> That's a fantastic question. I
I answered this question on on on the
site formerly known as Twitter um by
saying that uh you know uh web
compatibility.
>> So it turns out unfortunately or for
better or worse a lot of websites are
only really designed to work with
Chromium.
>> Uh there are features of major websites
which I I won't get into the naming
names but that that are just not present
if you're not using Chromiumbased
browser. And the other reason is um
Chromium Chrome Chromium extensions
extensions built on top of Chromium are
very popular and when you build your
browser on top of Chromium it means
those extensions will just work and so
we want to make sure that we building a
browser that first off works for people
that all the websites they care about
will be supported and all the features
of those websites will be supported and
we want to make sure that they could uh
install any of the extensions that they
care about and that they're used to
using in their browser. And it seems
like there's also, you know, we, you
know, kind of nontechnical people, they
hear Chrome and they hear Chromium, but
understand there's like a a really deep
lineage that even goes further back. You
also have WebKit and KDE and whatnot.
>> So, what I'd say is, and you know, I
think there's like a lot of excitement
for, you know, from among the community
for for to see like new rendering
engines come about. [clears throat] Uh,
and that's certainly been part of the
DNA of the web too over over the years.
Um, at the same time, just like Darren
said, um, you know, when you build a new
browser and you don't have that many
people using your product just yet, it's
it's you kind of just want the web to
work as people know it today. And
actually, back when we were starting
working on Chrome, we had the same
concern like, you know, Chromium today,
you know, has Blink, which is sort of
its own rendering engine that sort of
diverged from from that lineage. Um, but
at that point, like there wasn't much
appetite for taking risks like that. uh
and so that uh the chromium rendering
engine is based on WebKit uh which is
the Safari rendering engine which is
open source and that itself was based on
an earlier rendering engine from from
the Linux Linux world uh called KHTML
>> uh and so yeah it's really interesting
to go back in times you can see how
these sort of open source projects fork
and branch and so on
>> there's code in chromium that comes from
the Mozilla project too
>> you're going back to the 1990s uh you
can find this uh
>> this is true
>> this lineage
So you know browsers are this sort of um
this layer cake of technology that's
been built up over time and you know
really where we are wanting to innovate
is that next layer where the the AI
model comes in and how it's articulating
and interacting with the foundational
layers and so for us building on top of
Chromium is like gives us this
well-known foundation. Uh we built on
top of Chromium in a very different way
than normally browsers would. Most
browsers are just taking Chromium and
forking the UI or uh layering another uh
you know UI on top of Chromium but
running right in the same process as
Chromium.
>> Uh what that means is that uh if
Chromium's doing work, your
application's not doing work.
>> And so in the the structure that we we
set up with Owl, uh it means that Atlas
is able to work in parallel with the
rest of the all the activities related
to rendering the web and and producing
web pages, which is pretty cool. So if
the browser part crashes,
>> yeah, if the if the owl part crashes, if
something goes wrong with that piece, um
then you owl uh sorry, Atlas can
restart. So that's actually a really
interesting thing because I remember
back when we were originally doing the
design of Chrome there was this thought
of like well the web page might crash
and therefore your browser should be
around and then because you know
Chromium has sort of become this very
sophisticated platform for web pages it
itself has become super complicated and
now like Atlas is this very lightweight
frame around the outside that really is
about like
>> that core productivity use case of using
a browser um with chatbt kind of as this
tool that you can bring down on on onto
any page and that's really where its
focus is. Whereas the the Chromium i.e.
owl piece is able to focus on being that
platform and then both parts are not
really they're resilient to each other's
you know difficulties that they might
run into. [laughter]
>> This is true
>> uh in that sense. Um yeah, just actually
like another fun fact about like OpenAI
and the benefit of the system that that
we've built. Um every engineer that
starts at OpenAI merges code on their
first day. And uh if you think about,
you know, how massive Chromium is as a
platform, you know, it's it's really
super powerful, but it it's a lot of
code. It takes a while to get all that
code onto your device.
>> Just a little bit complicated.
>> Yeah. And and it takes a while to build
it all. Uh and so we tend to get our new
hires in the afternoon as they've gone
through all of their onboarding
training. Um and uh then they have to
merge a change. Uh so to be able to
check out all of that code and build it
and then make a change to the code in
your first afternoon can be pretty tough
if you have to do all of that. But
because we have structured this in a way
that they don't have to, you can go and
make a change to the um to the Atlas
side, get that checked out and built
very very quickly. uh our engineers are
able to be productive right away and uh
merge code on their first day and like
ship features on their first
>> related to this um so always when you're
starting a new project you get to make
new technology choices you get to when
we were starting Chrome we got to say
what is the latest and greatest way to
build code right uh fast forward to
starting Atlas we're like what's the
latest and greatest way to build a
native app on Mac OS so of course we're
going to be using swift we're going to
be using swift UI where where it makes
sense
>> and we're going to be you know using all
these um you know the app is built in
Xcode and just done in a very familiar
way. So people who are are used to doing
Swift development maybe because they're
building iOS apps they can come in and
just be instantly productive because
this is not a foreign codebase not a
foreign system you know and uh and yet
it's it's harnessing the power of
Chromium at the same time which is super
complicated when you look at this from
the outside a lot of people draw
comparisons to go well you know there
was operator now they're doing chat GPT
atlas you know is this going to be a
real thing for them or is just another
experiment.
>> So, a browser um you know, I think it's
a it's a super um core tool for
productivity. Um and it's something that
you need to be able to count on. And so
my view for this has always been that
this is like a long-term investment. And
so that's the way that we're approaching
it. Um there's a set of functionality
that we've launched which is sort of
like the first phase. If I come back to
browser history, I sort of say it's the
you know Netscape 1.0 O if you like of
this new era of of web browsing.
>> Um so there's going to be a lot of
future improvements to come features
that we're building because people have
told us about it from the initial set of
feedback things that we come up with you
know through our partnership with
research whole host of new functionality
uh that will come out over the course of
time. The other thing that we hear from
folks is they want to see this across
different platforms. Yeah. Basically
this browser isn't available for my
Windows device or on my phone or that
sort of thing. So these are things that
we are we're thinking about and and
working on. So there's like a a long
road map of enhancements. And so we want
people to um both feel confidence that
this will get better over the course of
time. Uh it actually gets better every
week when we push an update. Um and they
will see it increasingly on more of the
surfaces uh where they are. So
definitely a long-term investment for
us. Yeah, we got this app to the point
where um internally uh the users at
OpenAI were um we were seeing them enjoy
this product and you know and we wanted
we were at a point where uh the kind of
feedback we were getting was uh was was
was uh you know
>> why haven't you shipped it yet?
>> Yeah. Why haven't you shipped it yet is
exactly what I was thinking cuz it's
like we weren't getting new feedback.
>> Yeah.
>> We we were we and we realized we're
ready to ship this. we want to share
this with the world. We wanna we want to
hear how other people are experiencing
it. Um, and I think that, you know, the
feedback's been all kinds of amazing.
Uh, you know, obviously there's been, u,
you know, people who have their pet
feature that's missing or like when Ben
said, you know, how come I can't, you
know, where's window Windows when?
>> But, you know, the other day my my
14-year-old son came back and he's like,
oh man, my friends at school, they love
this browser, you know, kind of a thing.
And and I was asking like, really, what
do they love about it? And then they
just he just was like talking about all
the different AI features that they were
checking out. I think it's really
interesting to see um that sort of spark
of fascination from people um whether
it's kids or or uh you know people we
work with or friends as they sort of
share their experiences with this thing
and I don't know I just love to see how
people um and my my wife was so giddy
when she got first got to try Atlas when
when we did the friends and family
testing and just to be able to go and
explore researching some task and asking
uh the side chat about what she was
looking at and just She had so much fun
with it.
>> My wife loves it. This is not a lie, an
exaggeration. The night that it came
out, we're sitting in bed. I'm reading
and I look over, "How are you?" And she
says, "I swear to you, I swear to goes,
I can't stop thinking about Chad GPD
Atlas." Because for her, it was her
first use of an agentic system like
this. And to be able to go do these
things, it was a huge unlock was her
favorite tool, ChatGpt now connected to
the browser.
>> Yep. Exactly. because um just the
tediousness that it takes away when you
I'm looking at this website or I'm doing
some research and I can just ask it now
about the thing I was talking about it
to it before and now we can take this as
context and we can kind of keep going
and research and whatever the topic is.
It just becomes a lot easier when the AI
when the model is right there with you.
>> I think a lot of folks like struggle
with you know how to do you know you
know sometimes like what seem like very
complex tasks on certain websites. You
know, one of those websites I think is,
you know, if I'm on a spreadsheet on
like a web based, pick your favorite
web- based spreadsheet program,
>> how do I visualize this data in a
certain way? If you just have a tool
there that you can ask, you know, drop
in and help in a very consistent way, I
think that's really really interesting.
Um, you know, the other piece that I
think is interesting, you know, related
to uh to your wife's reaction is um this
is a lot of net new capability, I think,
for a lot of folks in the world. Um I'm
what I'm really excited about with this
tool is that you know our our model
capabilities are always evolving. Uh so
at any given point in time it's not like
sort of the ultimate state of it. Uh but
we kind of get to show people how this
stuff works. Uh and I think with that
build some more understanding some more
trust um about you know how this this
this technology is working on on your
behalf. And I think it's it, you know,
even if we came up with the world's best
model um uh tomorrow that solved every
problem perfectly in the way that you
personally would have wanted that
problem solved, you probably would still
want to be able to come along for the
ride and understand how that was
actually happening. Uh just, you know,
for for your own education. I think over
time, I think when as your trust level
builds, eventually you'll be you'll feel
comfortable fully delegating very
complex tasks uh to this technology, but
we're not at that stage yet. Um, and so
I think one of the things I'm really h
really happy and excited about is that
people are able to come and observe the
sort of the next step of this technology
and, you know, watch it, see how it
does, you know, tell us, you know,
yellow dust when it doesn't work, you
know, that kind of thing. Uh, but I
think you can kind of get a feel for how
it works and as a result like you will
know like what it what it's going to be
capable of and you'll kind of know what
the controls are like where you want it
to stop doing something or you want to
do something differently, you can just
tell it and so on. I think you can kind
of dial up and down how much you use the
model and the ways you use it in this
product, but it's kind of like right
there. It's easy to try again. And I
think sometimes the magic the magic I've
felt with chatbt is is when it when it
really works ever so well that I'm like,
"Oh, I'm going to go back for that."
Right? It's you have you have those
magic moments where it's like,
>> "Oh my gosh, I I'm going to change my
habits because of how this works."
Right? And I think I think in this case
it's like easy for people to use
familiar patterns, right? I open the new
tab page. I do a search, it lands me
into an experience that includes some
links I can click on, but there's also
the model response. And so you start to
learn that like uh maybe instead of that
website I was looking for that was going
to answer my question, it's just right
there and and I can go and explore that
and I can ask it another question. You
start to learn the power of of this
model just by virtue of using the
product in a familiar normal way. And so
for me that's that's kind of exciting to
see how people it might open the door to
people um starting to un realize just u
you know what the capabilities of this
model are
>> looking to the future first let's start
short term I can understand how a
Windows version you're going to pretty
much want parody of what you have right
now on the Mac version but when you talk
about mobile and it's one thing when I
have a lot of desktop space and I can
put a sidebar and have the chat thing
there but when you're talking on mobile
browsing as you guys know especially is
a very tricky thing and moving a search
tab from the top to the bottom or
whatever seems like a revolutionary
change. Uh how are you thinking about
that the mobile experience and also is
it going to maybe
are we going to be thinking more
agentically in how we use these things?
>> So maybe fun fact some of our initial
explorations were actually on mobile and
and part of the way we were thinking
about it was really what does it mean to
bring the model to the web?
>> Mhm. [clears throat]
>> Right. And that can take many different
forms and of course chatbt is exists as
an app on on your phone as you can
imagine ways in which you might um share
uh to that the kinds of memories that
have been uh generated by using Atlas
right so there's a lot of different
flavors and forms in which mobile could
come how this could manifest on mobile
but at the basic level it's like what
are some interesting you know we're
going to be looking at like how can we
bring the web to the model and what Does
that make what makes sense on mobile?
>> The UX um you know may look a little bit
different. You obviously as you point
out there's a sort of a different form
factor there. We've got very talented
designers though. I'm sure that they'll
come up with a good way to solve some of
this stuff. Um definitely I think on
mobile or at least I noticed through my
own use um like my use case is far more
information retrieval. Like I have a
question you know I actually I use the
chat GBT app a lot. If I have a question
about something I'm around or I point
the camera at the thing and like what is
this? you know that type of thing. So I
think that there are a whole host of um
situations like that where there is web
content that is part of that journey and
we want to make sure that that uh that
user flow that you have with Atlas where
you can view some web content where you
can ask follow-up questions and then go
back and look at the content again that
that feels very good. Um that's
something that we're sort of in the
midst of figuring out right now. And so,
you know, like not too much more thought
on it than that. Other than that, it's
um something that we're going to want to
make sure is like very feels very good.
>> Yeah. I think we hear from people that
the the importance of mobile cuz uh you
know, they're doing work on their laptop
and they want to continue in some
fashion on their phone, right? So, you
can start to imagine the kinds of uh
space of possibilities there.
>> Where are we going to be in 5 years with
how we're using the web and how we use
tools like this? So I would love to be
in a place where people think less about
the particulars of the tools they're
using and are more just expressing what
they want
>> to the system and then the system is
smart enough to understand how to
respond to that uh in a good way. And so
in that sense we can be as you know as
humans we can be focused on the the
highest you know the questions the
highest order um piece which is like
what is the most um interesting for me
to do you know the model maybe can take
over an agent can drive
>> maybe the less appetizing part of the
work the more more I use the word toil
to describe some of that sort of grunt
work of pulling information from a bunch
of different sources. Um maybe it can do
on do a bunch of things that just seem
very difficult to you because you you've
not done them before. It it sort of
knows how to do those things and then
you can be focused on the things that
you want to do. Uh so I imagine a world
where actually there may be a lot of
internet traffic in the future that is
um that is agentic that may even be most
of the internet traffic. I still see um
people as doing a bunch of generating a
bunch of traffic as well. Um but uh that
should be you know it should be
efficient. It should be people should be
focused on doing the things that they
want to do and delegating more of this
work uh to uh more of this toil really
uh to to agents that can take on a lot
of that that other stuff. And then like
if you have to uh make a decision on a
project, maybe your agent comes back to
you and and gives you some choices. You
know, if you're going to take a
vacation, do you want to stay at this
hotel or that hotel? You can pick uh
between them. You get to make a choice.
Um, but all of the sort of grungy
clicking around and scouring the
internet uh for these things, maybe it
it it took the first pass and presented
you some choices. We we've talked a bit
about how as users and developers of
this tool, you look at it. If I was
somebody who had an e-commerce site, if
I was looking at I'm going to be putting
information on the web and I know that
one there had been conversations, you
know, for a while like what happens when
LLMs go search the web and now we get
into the world of agents when agents are
using this and plus, you know, LLM
powered browsers. What advice, what
direction would you be telling people to
think?
>> You mean the publishers?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think that um it's
really interesting like in some ways I
think about the the maybe a little bit
related to what Ben was talking about
like um you know you see the more recent
models they've they've learned how to uh
based on the query decide hey I should
actually look at the internet to um to
to answer your question right and so I
think it's really interesting how these
models can um help you connect to
publishers and in web apps and whatever
content that's out there either
um you know giving you know a snippet
and like a citation to it so you can go
deeper or or even just connecting you to
it because that's actually what you you
know if you're intent was to navigate to
a site then it can help you get there. I
think one of the things we've been
exploring with Atlas is how to for
example better handle and better serve
navigational intents. Sometimes people
come to their browser with absolutely
the intent of I want to buy this product
on this site,
>> you know, and that's our job just to get
you there as fast as possible. And so
it's been actually an an element of
building Atlas was making sure we're
serving those kinds of queries well.
>> Uh other times you just want to probe
the know the the knowledge of the model
and have it go and research something
for you. And sometimes that involves it
needing to invoke tools to do that on
your behalf. And so again, sort of to
Ben's what Ben was talking about, it's
I, you know, I imagine a world in the
future when you don't have to be so
prescriptive about what tool you want
the model to use, but rather it has this
incredible pallet of tools that it could
draw upon. And some of them can be, you
know, actuating your browser, things
like this.
>> Are we going to be using web pages in 10
years?
>> I think so. I you know it's kind of a
um it's kind of this this fabric of like
of this world where people are
publishing through this this this this
core primitive how people are putting
content out there right so it's kind of
the you know the the internet
superighway all that kind of those
analogies but it is like this this open
fabric for on which people can publish
and I don't see that changing
>> it's the world's largest you know as you
mentioned before most open platform and
I think some of that power of openness
is always going to make it attractive
for people to
>> put content on.
>> The way I look at it is these tools,
yes, they are able to understand that
fabric, understand that internet,
understand the content that's out there,
but they're also able to bring that
content to people and connect people to
that content. And it could be very
powerful. And again, it's all in service
of what is that user's intent. I think
it's very interesting to think about how
we can do a better and better job of
that at really serving the needs of
those users. And ultimately, as people
are putting content out there that's
intended for people, if you're you're
you're putting out content that you're,
you know, it's a gallery for somebody to
go shopping or something like this, uh
we want to help people find that, help
people get connected to that, help
people with the journey that they're on
and whatever that may be.
>> This is exciting. Thank you for sharing
this. Um any last suggestions, any power
user tips?
>> Yeah, definitely definitely the
scrolling tabs feature is like a
favorite uh for both of us. Um yeah, I
would just say like uh challenge
yourself like I said at this point very
early stage but challenge yourself with
your curiosity on any given page. Ask a
question on more pages uh that that you
visit. Uh and you might be surprised
with what you come up with.
>> Awesome. And we'd love to hear from
everybody about you know how they're how
they're experiencing the product. So
please keep the feedback coming.
>> Definitely. Ben Darren, thank you very
much. Thank you.
>> Thank you.